no kidding so you've fallen prey to you
know the standard Buddhist device of
compulsive gardening have you oh using
indigenous plants only Mountain one of
my first two professors of Buddhism his
his monastic training was in Japan and
he complained that you know the Grand
Master of his temple was obsessed with
gardening and kind of didn't give a damn
but didn't give a damn about the
monastic discipline or other issues well
the the universities in Taiwan also a
lot of them paid a lot more attention to
gardening than to educational content
some universities there are beautiful
views and beautiful gardens but not a
lot under the surface yeah yeah I sent
Nadia my resume also I sent Nadia the
resume and say can you make sure that
that William shoe gets this so I see
yeah you be able to find the things that
you were looking for yeah I agree
and you know coming to
your University it's humbler than I was
expected I mean it's uh I had low
expectations and the reality is even
lower you know um I visited many of the
Buddhist universities in Taiwan and you
they're humble in their way but I was
expecting it to be more on that on that
level and it's really not you know the
other reality is which is not my resume
I have a five-year-old daughter my
daughter lives in France
I fly back and forth to see her in
France which is not true
you know in some ways I have actually
been a paragon of the Buddhist virtue of
not caring about material possessions
I've never owned the car or I did I
didn't own a cell phone so I was 36
I lived quite a simple life but
ultimately I do need to earn money so
the value of the the education of those
kinds of outcomes
you know matters also I don't know if
anyone's indifferent to that stuff but
ultimately I can't be to have to
graduate from school well I don't yeah I
don't think that kind of employment is
really open to me but the other the
other huge consideration here is just
that I'm a Canadian citizen so for
better and for worse as a Canadian
citizen I have radically fewer
opportunities it's also true that I have
radically less competition you know with
within Canada and so on so in terms of
what my options and opportunities are
they're they're really changed by being
Canadian and you know for me quite a
long time ago I gave up on probably the
career path you're alluding to which we
go to an Ivy League League school so or
you know Cambridge or Oxford in England
and get a PhD out of there and then
pursue that I just mentioned apart from
the fact that I have known people as
friends who took that path also my
ex-wife the mother of my daughter who's
already been mentioned she got her PhD
from Cambridge University so I spent
time at
Cambridge and Oxford I was married to
her for six years wasn't wasn't a short
term yeah you know and so I knew her and
her situation and all of her friends
just last night I had dinner with a
woman who got a PhD from one of the
major universities year and it's nail
kind of permanently unemployed or send
me an employ I've known a lot of people
who who took that path so it's not
something that's really glorified for me
so you know on the one hand there's the
question of you know pursuing the
education as an in itself or as an
adjunct to what might otherwise be a be
meaningful life right now so yeah I
mentioned this because you'd never guess
this from my resume I'm enrolled to
begin a baking college baking college is
only a four month program so that I will
be a qualified Baker and I can earn a
living baking bread IME I agree I it's
quite monastic in its way you wake up
early you know you do you do something
honest with your hands yes all right but
but the other side of that is I've spent
so many years working so hard on
languages and it's hard for me to even
explain this to like my own mother or my
own relatives or friends I have to say
to people so like I said to my mother
recently look you have never worked on
something as hard as I worked on
learning Chinese and I
I worked way harder on poly and
Cambodian emotion and these are the
flashes that I worked on on Chinese but
it's like is this long process of
working on languages and also history in
politics and I want this to be
meaningful in my life in the president
in the future in some way so I mean I
think that is the sincere answer to the
question you're asking and the other the
other foot I'm just is I've I've alluded
to the fact that visited many
universities and spoken to many many
professors you know I wish I could tell
you I have a bunch of options I wish I
could tell you of a bunch you know
positive negative or where in between
but I really don't you know my options
my alternatives are limited to zero so
I've you know I feel like I've already
looked at everything in Taiwan in
Thailand also for example in Europe I've
talked to all the universities in
Germany and France as well as United
Kingdom's walls as well as England and
of course Canada and within the u.s. I
haven't talked
everybody does financially many of the
American universities are not an option
you know some of the American
universities $50,000 a year and as
there's no real employment value to the
degree years and though often no
language trading value also many of the
American universities is $50,000 a year
and I wouldn't even learn anything
language with University of the West one
of my hopes was just being there being
in a suburb of LA where 40% of people
are Chinese and where the students speak
Chinese you know I get to work on
Chinese every day you know I'd be in a
Chinese language environment or have
some some Chinese speaking friends or
something although I'm not
I mean having now been to the University
of the West there's no Chinese language
club I notice you know they don't have a
Chinese language program they're not set
up in that way and you know some of the
schools in Taiwan are where whether or
not your degree is in Chinese where
they're they're set up to help you
improve your Chinese so yeah that was
one of the positive hopes about us was
that I could live you know Chinese
language yeah you don't have a place
with I'm getting that education all the
time regardless of my formal this is a
largely segregated area and the people
kind of you know are working in their
own little circles and you would hardly
there are a lot of Chinese restaurants
but I doubt those are very conducive
place to hone your linguistic right
skill most Asian students on campus as
far as I can tell they are you know
mainland Chinese here to study MBA and
gosh I hate to generalize or to cast
them into stereotypes but many of them
were primarily driven by hedonistic
concerns yeah you're hitting local pub
scenes karaoke doing their own things
I'm not I'm not sure if you will find us
to be a
ground intellectual exchange sure
linguistic immersion right right you
know I really appreciate you saying that
obviously I think I think you and I have
a lot in common actually you but you
know that's that's often I have to have
to emphasize the people the fact that
somebody is Chinese doesn't mean they're
motivated to be my Chinese teacher or my
partner or anything else or talked to me
about you know the history of slavery in
China or something whatever I have to be
doing research on you know so no I've
seen that again again also with Laos
Cambodia with other languages and
cultures of of worked on yeah well look
I'll ask you so I've mentioned this as a
parallelism I have a Chinese professor
in Canada and I asked him you know he
does really like me he's very positive
me he likes my writing and I said to him
one day well what do you think about me
getting a master's degree you know with
you you know basically you as my
supervisor in one of these departments
and there was a silence and then he
answered he said every one of my
graduate students I track their career
after they leave and he said to date not
a single one has found employment
full-time employment
you know so I've seeded me working in a
restaurant but he months so kind of you
know whatever sticky habit of a decent
job I remember that was you know he's
cultural in Chinese he's you know born
and raised in China so his manner of
speaking is a little bit more
wouldn't you know but I got the message
in good conscience I cannot this vital
information from any prospective student
it's not a star it's just it's hopeless
so if I'm understanding you correctly
you are at the same time pursuing some
type of a vocational trade is so that
that may give me the luxury to get a PhD
I mean again I was thinking I could end
up pursuing a PhD in something like
history but that also never runs steady
income you know I just say you know I
was thinking that maybe if I can be
reasonably successful in this kind of
vocational training that's going to set
up yeah Southeast Asian language program
at UCLA I probably did maybe maybe ten
years ago or five years ago or something
look I say again I'm a Canadian citizen
so in terms of the in terms of the gone
see and the cost because remember for
most American citizens like people pay
fifty thousand dollars a year to get a
degree in political science
so my first degree isn't was not in the
United States and the main value of that
is the informal connection to sources of
employment so they like you know
literally one of the program's like oh
you'll get to meet a Madeleine Albright
you know great you know for me that
that's useless now I don't know for an
American citizen maybe there's some
value in that kind of degree at UCLA
of course I'm skeptical but you know the
the cost-benefit ratio compared to when
if you take fifty thousand dollars to
Laos or Cambodia you're a rich man you
can live for many you can open a hotel
or something it's ridiculous you know
the difference goes so I just say but as
as a Canadian I do face kind of special
disadvantages that way and that's part
of what led me to learning Chinese
Chinese wasn't my first choice it was my
last choice but now I mean Chinese now
is my main language of scholarship and
comes here I wake up every morning and
practice reading or any Chinese I'm not
fluent because of
only been doing it for so many years I
have you know that's that's a field
that's dominated by people who are born
Chinese and speak speak Chinese is there
for you yeah it's a very hard road for
me to get on I mean I started learning
Chinese at what age 35 or 36 for guys
I'm not a white guy start learning
Chinese let me just let me do the actual
the actual diploma in question NTNU in
Taiwan gives that diploma and there's
also so I have done all the research on
this and there's one University in the
south which is called wen wen Zhou
Ursuline languages versus
those are the two in Taiwan to give that
training so I have done the research on
that and you know honestly it would be a
very long very expensive path for me to
get on that leads to very uncertain very
low wage employment even compared to
teaching ESL and you know I mean what
you say is true there is some work for
that I do think I have a lot to offer us
in English sorry as a Chinese language
teacher because my approach to language
my understanding of what a westerner
needs to know and how to teach language
is very different from someone who
speaks as the first language I do think
I have some some advantages there but in
terms of in terms of earning a living
and the long narrow path to that that
form of employment in terms of the
credentials you can get the number of
years the amount of the amount of money
to be spent very tough and this is the
thing I'd note when you go to NTU
gone and talked to those people almost
all the students doing it are from
countries that can't get need of Chinese
speakers as teachers so for example
there's work doing that stuff in Israel
and Latin America and South America
thank you know because those defendants
that aren't already full of Chinese
immigrants working at minimum wage but
like here in Los Angeles you really
think I can earn a living being a
Chinese teacher there's a huge number of
Chinese people who already speak the
language well yeah I got a survive now
you know that's a totally good question
but I mean look I'd say three things one
it was so this is before I came here
because I talked about this with my
girlfriend with my mom you know look why
am I going to LA to visit this
University number one was the idea of
being in a university where nonprofit
work was appreciated like because I made
even the bakery it may be a non-profit
you know I mean I may do that as a
charity you know obviously you earn your
on a salary from a charity that may
become a nonprofit mission for me
and you know a lot of my own interests
in life in terms of charity and
what-have-you I didn't go to Cambodia to
get rich or related to nonprofit and
charity work so that was appealing the
idea of being a university or nonprofit
and charity work is a big deal being in
a university were my background as a
scholar of Buddhism is appreciated or at
least understood you know what I mean
because believe me I can be in all kinds
of contexts where people just look at me
like what who are you you're from where
or even like I've been in many contexts
with the fact that I used to live in
Cambodia it's just regarded negatively
like people just think I'm a bad person
because I live in Cambodia you know as
opposed to being in a place with people
just be a little bit positive of that or
open oh isn't that interesting
you know you studied Buddhism in
Cambodia and Laos you know just
responding a little bit a little bit
positive that and then the third thing
has already mentioned was that the
prospect of doing language work you know
constantly are consistently of raising
the level I haven't
but I mean you know I could go back to
Palin I really was a family scholar for
many years and I'm look I'm not boasting
you I've met most of the people who have
PhDs and family
I met them face to face I met the great
poly scholars I met Jacqueline philias
at I met Richard Gombrich I met the new
generation coming up and of course I've
read their work and stuff and you know I
I really was I had the potential to be
one of the greatest scholars in that
field or the greatest partly because my
competition is very humble the quality
of scholarship and the honesty of
scholarship is really low in the 21st
century it was better 200 years ago or
150 years ago but you know you know be
that as it may I did all that work so
yes you could say there might be the
temptation to try it in to some extent
you know again even if it's not reviving
my ability in Pali to get some value out
of that you know now and in the future
my life so that's very appealing and
I've got to say so you know yes for me
in my position today and given the lack
of other options open to me it's the
idea of getting a PhD in something like
you know Buddhist philosophy whatever
you call it is still appealing and
interesting
I prefer frankly to have a degree that
maybe was called Asian Studies or
something like that you know I think but
you know yes I am open to that and I am
you know what some levels still positive
about it and you know for other people I
mean look the other thing is you can
look at this too as like I've already
done all this work in research and okay
I mentioned one one brief anecdote I
talked to a professor at a university in
Canada that has a PhD in input a Studies
program and you know starting to be was
very positive we had maybe four e-mails
back and forth and then I said to him
very casually that I was thinking about
opening a bakery you know within the
same period of time like getting a PhD
you know you know a PhD could take years
and years and he immediately became
hostile and negative and kind of like
hung up the phone was an email
conversation but he said wrote back
really English and no forget it I won't
consider you as a PhD student here at
all if you're thinking about for any
business in the side and I remember
that's mind blowing cuz I've been
friends with so many people while they
were getting their PhDs including my
my ex-wife you know while she was my
wife you see and they don't a lot of
time with their hands and it's like
don't these people realize I'd be coming
to this already with such a high level
of preparation like in some ways it is
cashing in on the investment of time I
put into this area of studies for a
period of over ten years already it
would not be as hard for me and of
course I maybe I could you need a more
productive research maybe more positive
out of it but it's I'm not I'm not in
the situation of a normal person who
just finished a BA and is looking to
enter and I'm a and Buddhism you know
great deal of sympathy for for you know
this is quandary that you're in don't
you think that these three reasons you
listed cannot be met by a place like
UCLA
you know I imagine that you know a place
like that would you know like meet your
needs much more much more than been our
than our school can possibly do and you
end up with a PhD from a pedigree
program and in the often chance a you do
return to Canada you can become a
full-time professor I hate you mouth my
own school PhD from our program would
amount to almost nothing employability
why not spend the same amount of time
and energy you know somewhere else this
is after I went to the campus I was
thinking maybe I should go back to
Taiwan for that reason but I doubt it
would be you know I've been doing this
for I've been I've been doing this for
more than 15 years so I know all the
specific professors there there isn't
one professor at any of those
universities who even have a Skype
conversation their phone conversation me
like like you are now you know so you
know I could get into the specifics I
mean you know University of Toronto I
know exactly the professors involved I
have four I mean since the year 2001 so
however many are up to now 17 years I
know the situation of that University
and you know when you look at it
institution by institution many of these
institutions have intentionally closed
the door in my face
some are just not interested to open the
door and in some cases there are those
factors that I mentioned that as a
Canadian you know what's already
absurdly expensive in the United States
is even more expensive and you're
looking at you're looking at a path that
isn't worth isn't worth getting on
Canadian employments are first and
foremost reserved for Canadian citizens
well that's my that's now forbidden
under NAFTA the free trade agreement the
United States documents that a league
like that yeah yeah so car French are
yeah but it is still true that there is
preference for hiring Canadians ISM I
mean it is absolutely true that there is
some preference and that's why I alluded
to that earlier when I said as a
Canadian I disadvantages but there's
also kind of a smaller market of
competition they very often do want to
hire a Canadian candidate yeah but they
can't be racist so to speak against
American citizens as openly as there
were and say the nineteen 1970s yeah so
that that's a change in Canadian
institutional crisis and we do have in
Canada you could be in departments where
none of the professor's are Canadian
it's now very common where everyone's a
foreigner in a in a Canadian academic
department yeah especially in Asian
Studies offices yeah this would be kind
of gaining yourself okay so I'm not
suggesting somehow you were only
eligible for this level of work but
really speaking America right now house
in a voracious appetite for healthcare
professionals yeah right
that line of work will require say two
years worth of training one year's worth
of training you know like in two years
you know a safer example as a registered
nurse you'd be making upwards of seventy
eighty thousand US dollars per year and
there's a tremendous demand that they're
almost indiscriminate when it comes to
citizenship you know when it comes to
whatever the case might be temperament
connections you know if you if you got
the certificate you get the job right
away even before you're done your work
okay I understand that you wanted to be
true to your passion you know no I think
you asked a good question obvious I've
looked at many jobs with that including
becoming a police officer including
joining the military
I mean I've looked at so many people
have said the same characteristics that
make me a good scholar Buddhism would
make a good police officer I'm not
joking I say that both I kind of focus
attention to detail equanimity
detachment along these things and you
know I'm a forceful but not violent
personality anyway uh you know I have
looked those things but I think for me
the bottom line is you're looking for a
job that's compatible with being a real
intellectual and you know baking it's
not the baking as my great passion I
feel it's ethically positive morally
positive I'm vegan I'm not just
engineering I'm vegan and I know some
somebody serve vegetarian somewhere on
the spectrum but I'm fully vegan so the
bacon connects positive that and ideas I
have but ecology and ethics but also the
nature of baking as a repetitive manual
labor you know there are creative
challenges in coming up with a recipe
but then once you've got that recipe you
make it a thousand times I think that
really is compatible with studying
languages and teaching languages and
studying history and politics and being
an intellectual and I do not think that
the type of you know emotionally and
mentally exhausting work of say being a
caretaker for the elderly as a nurse or
something those kinds of biomedical
degrees I don't I don't see the same way
so I think there are various reasons but
yeah that that would be my answer that
question
to tell you thank you for your concern
and thank you thanks for help it's it's
it's a surreal conversation to have but
I think it's you know it's it's a
necessary one I know I might not be
successful in s waiting you right well
look I hope I have your current email
I'm using the moon in hands email so you
know maybe I'm going to spam cuz that's
working that's what I've been sending to
so I may be blocked you may have blocked
me ten years ago it's quite possible or
amid going to spam yes aren't you but I
guess I'll go back and and re-examine
some of the options in Taiwan because I
mean for me you know I would say I mean
Buddhism is one of my interests but I'd
say what I've always been looking for is
a combination of research and
humanitarian work kind of research type
stuff and then making the world a better
place type stuff and you know I've tried
to do a yeah I tried to do that in
Cambodia I tried to that in Laos but I
mean now it's a really weird situation
because I was hoping Chinese as a
language would open a lot of doors for
me and it hasn't it really hasn't I'm
not in a better situation now with
Chinese that I was when I was studying
obscure languages like like pallium
[Music]
doors for you you would have to be very
focused in terms of you know chasing
down a certain specific goals rather
than just you know like being
generically proficient in multi
languages yeah pick up pedagogy for
example right you have to cultivate you
know when she you know in with the right
people
well right but with that haven't been
said I'm vastly overqualified compared
to the normal person who applies to
enter an MA program and that's really
what we're talking about is why can't I
get a masters degree somewhere so then
you say is reasonable but in that
context there should be ma options of it
yeah just clear in the past
of course your you're more than welcome
to to give a shot right right I
completely understand the question is
what happens next right exactly yeah and
also actually even before then right in
the process of adding to what comes next
you may not be happy yeah yeah so well I
understand you know as they say I've
been to a lot of the Buddhist
universities in Taiwan I was expecting a
seal I to be you know similar to that
and boy walking into you're walking into
the dining hall walking into the canteen
and seeing hamburgers for say oh it's
not not wow this is not really what I
was expecting to be the study human
Viking materia doh so yeah I commented
to the guy giving me the Torah sit-ups
Eli temples thank you very much your
tongue see if we can stay in touch by
email I'd appreciate that and I think
yeah I love text message you mind mail
but it's basically the same as my name
in a hard place financially speaking
your situation is aggravated as a result
of you know pursuing a PhD degree I know
that's really what I've seen I agree
it's a road to know so if you want to
ameliorate your situation this might not
be you know the path that you want to
pursue so that yeah well I think I think
the basis of or if I do become a student
at your University I think it would have
to be that for other reasons I'm
committed to living in Los Angeles and
maybe I'm committed to working in a
bakery here or running a bakery or
owning a small bread factory or
something is something like that I'm
involved with vegan activism or some
other kind of positive activism in LA
and then you say okay can this be
compatible
with also you know pursuing something in
Asian Studies Asian languages Buddhism I
think you'd be that kind of argument
yeah
field research in that front my
understanding is that there are a lot of
ethnic established friends and a lot of
vegetarian restaurants Elise instinct a
bro Valley yes and you you might be
looking at some pretty steep competition
you know there are a lot of Asians
coming in with capitals you know they're
able to you start things in the right
way whereas I imagine that that's the
way capitalism works I mean that's
that's the way to have successful
businesses you know where people are
already busy you know if you want to you
can you can put a bakery in the middle
of the desert or you could put it in the
middle of northern Michigan State but no
being where there were already ten other
bakeries is almost always the most
successful place totally clever thinker
yeah yeah yeah
no that's the I would just I'm just
describing the context in which that's
possible but yeah I mean I assume you're
someone who might be interested to hear
but what I now learned if I mean I could
talk to UCLA I just really doubt it
because again you have to look at the
specific professors involved I in the
United States it's very unlikely I mean
I can say is I'm just a 0% chance
anything that would work out for me but
that is my experience for more than 15
years and remember I have to talk to a
professor and ask people professor who
looks at my resume or looks at my
articles and says yes we're interested
so I mean you asked about UBC University
of British Columbia I approached them
with a totally broad mandate like not
wanting to narrowly focus on terribad
Buddhism or something saying look this
is my background I can do kind of almost
anything and their response was in
effect look we do nothing but 18th
century Japanese poetry and certain
centuries of Chinese poetry and if
that's not that's the case with places
like UCLA or USC or any of the big name
schools and in fact if you succeed in
getting into one of these programs
does like there's good likelihood that
you're going to get full scholarship you
know you're going to get yeah I mean
it's very prejudicial I mean it's this
is really based on human pride and
Buddhism is a highly bigoted religion
there were Mahayana Buddhists who
regarded me as the devil when I was in
Voltaire about of Buddhism I mean
there's real hatred and rancor and
racism and I mean it's a deeply divisive
you know religious mentality filled I've
got I mean I've been through peer review
where my article was rejected because I
corrected an error in the poly tech
society dictionary that dictionary isn't
even written by Buddhist monks the
dictionary written by Riesz David's in
England you know by a white man it was
not a monk and I was told it was
religiously offensive that I would find
fault with the dictionary and therefore
my article couldn't be published you
know professors hate me for religious
reasons and reject me for those reasons
and that's not surprised to be the same
if our scholar of Judaism or a scholar a
[Music]
professor a professor of mishear and
Buddhism will never invite me at a
professor of Zen Buddhism will never let
me in a professor of Tibetan Buddhism
will never be an I once got an
invitation to get a PhD at Stanford if
if I drop everything I was doing and
start learning Tibetan how's that for a
trade-off I don't want to learn Tibetan
I don't respect a bit elitism I don't
you know I don't want to put a whole new
fruits of it so like you you really
think for a minute about who is the
establishment that's just on the
Buddhism side then he can look at the
Asian Studies Asian politics side and
again there were all these categories
that exclude me the largest one in Asian
Studies just being the people who only
do literature only do poetry so it is
interesting you can tell I'm not
complaining I'm just sharing this with
you but no it's it's easy to say there
must be an opportunity somewhere but I'm
telling you honestly there isn't the
reason I'm talking the reason I just
spent thousands of dollars no whatever
over 1,000 dollars coming to LA to visit
your campus is that there were no better
options for me anywhere just a few
minutes ago you reminded me of the
possibility that maybe 10 years ago I
blocked you
yeah so so in complete candor I say this
because I really think that people
change over time and you say as a result
of becoming more seasoned and you know
having had more life experience and so
forth
well my Wie my you know tempered are our
edges over time and so on so forth and
so my experience with different
universities with different and Buddhist
studies programs and I think it's fair
to say that this is probably shared by
many of my sin PI's by by my colleagues
and so forth is that universities in
general are places are as devoid of
prejudices as you can find anywhere else
okay so I'm not saying there is none I'm
saying compared to possibly every out
everywhere else in the world these are
probably the most progressive the most
liberal open-minded places one can find
and so if if you consistently encounter
difficulty with professors I seriously
doubt that it's because you like
altercations or that they they insist
that you pursue a ultra specialized
study it might have to do with our style
of approaching them and I have to do
with the way that we present our own
case it may be that substantively
speaking you are brilliant you know
you're still err but when it comes to
packaging yourself you know when it
comes to look I'm not saying this
because somehow I detected any you know
quoting expenses you know on your part
at this given moment you know from what
has transpired in the past two days or
so this is based on very vague memory
that I had about our past
changes like long time ago okay and so
and these professors are human beings
and they might find you you know do you
think people and other disciplines make
the kind of excuses you're making
because I've heard these excuses and
Buddhist studies on my life do you think
do you think do you think honestly if we
were talking about medical school
through document architecture if we'll
talk to women women toys in Latin and
Greek if I had studied ancient Greek if
I'd say injury do you think I'd have to
tolerate this kind of horseshit from you
or from Cambridge or Oxford or Harvard
or the small University in Canada or UBC
because I've heard this all my life all
my life I've had to hear this I know you
have good intentions I know you do but
in response I have to ask you live up to
a higher standard
live up to the standard you imagine they
take for granted in Latin and Greek
shouldn't it be possible for someone to
be a legitimate scholar of Latin or
Greek and proceed on that basis because
what you're describing to me say yeah
I've heard these excuses before and I
don't think they'd fly another fields I
think they perceived as deeply immoral
okay for whatever it's worth you don't
find this helpful
that's fine I understand is it would you
maybe do you want to ask me a question
there's no you think you you
misunderstand my response asking a
question I'm not asking a question yeah
III don't think that the things that
I've suggested are immoral or excuses
and that in terms of succeeding either
as a graduate student
or as in a commission one cultivates a
full spectrum spectrum of qualities
which include patient's and giving
people the benefit of the doubt and not
reflexively ascribe being the worst type
of intention to people so look I don't
if you don't find this line of
conversation helpful we can drop this
issue okay so okay but look what why
don't you look why maybe I've
misunderstood you
why don't you summarize for me what your
point is because what you won't clean
but what you clean was the for one
second and look at the way you're
responding to what I have said have you
really detected any Amity on my part no
one wants whoever disrespect on my part
none whatsoever and I don't I don't
claim anything that's all yeah well you
are saying that there are these deeply
seeded prejudices and biases you think
any of the examples I gave were not
things I've encountered in real life do
you think I'm lying or no I didn't say
that at all I think it's totally
reasonable I think your district I'm
talking about real-world situations I
know I mean this I don't think it's
unreasonable that someone who's devoted
their life to tear up tubes for me I
don't think it's unreasonable someone
who devoted their life to Tibetan
Buddhism only wants to work with other
people who study Tibetan Buddhism I
don't think that's unreasonable but I'm
singing to you sorry I'm gonna finish my
sentence I didn't say it's unreasonable
I just said that is the type of
situation that excludes me it's totally
rational if you had a Department devoted
to French literature and I want to study
Spanish literature
naturally they're not gonna want me as a
student you get that kind of thing in
Asian Studies in a buddhism language
[Music]
I've got more than 15 years of
experience and I think there's nothing
unreasonable what I said and it is true
everything I've told you is true
professor and I think they're just
intuitively it should be clear to you
that there's a lot of truth to that that
a department that's devoted to Tibetan
Studies or you know any other field like
that okay so why did I why do you think
I said that let's just let's just be
clear why do you think I said that so uh
I'll tell you it's it's because you're
judging people on matters of belief that
would not be judged in that way like in
China I'm not judging
I know I know William William I was
answering the question in reference to
other institutions I've dealt with in
reference to this broad do you actually
misunderstand me I mean when I say to
you in that sentence we could have said
one that would be somewhat antiquated in
English yeah so we'll you're not capable
of having this conversation somebody
tells you in a totally down-to-earth way
and I didn't ascribe any bad motives to
anyone
yes there are departments that are for
example devoted to Tibetan Buddhism or
Zen Buddhism someone who's devoted their
whole life to Japanese I don't think
it's unreasonable they want to exclude
me and you've said that's not your
experience so a professor who just does
Japanese Buddhism and says to me
honestly he doesn't want me as a
practicing I completely understand that
why do you find that shocking I don't
find that surprising at all you say it's
not so we agree saying being reasonable
and reporting something I've experienced
over
Vineyards somehow our field is just
inherently
it's prejudicial that Buddhism is
somehow the most frigid did I say that
so what what did I say no I said I don't
think the issues are surprising at all
compared to what I would encounter as a
scholar of Judaism or Islam or many
other things I think there are similar
so you did actually disregard a lot of
what I said
and I'm comparing it to the experience
I've had in political science in Asian
Studies and in many other disciplines
yeah sure those are real issues okay
actually I said my piece I told you can
you welcome to take whatever it's you
know that you find helpful or not
helpful whatever it's unhelpful so I
have to get going
aisel really so I this is not the line
if you're the kind of conversation I
like to carry on further okay that's a
lot for you and let me know if there are
things I can do with regards to
answering your questions otherwise
professor I really think if you if you
listened back to a recording of this
conversation afterwards you have to
reflect that what I've said to you if
you take a minute to look at the way
that you respond right it's my fault
right why not say what you really mean
okay so what do you want to talk about
that we know you want to say that and
hang up the phone okay it's I do yeah
well that what kind of person does that
make you professor okay thank you okay
I've recorded the conversation I'm gonna
post it on my youtube channel I can
clear it back and you can reflect on the
fact professor I think you live I think
you live in a bubble where you think
this has been a tremendously challenging
conversation for you but really really
someone in another field like ancient
Greek
this would not be so provocative a
conversation this would not be such a
challenge for you to deal with the level
of challenge I've brought to this
conversation it really shouldn't be it
really shouldn't be that hard for you to
deal with this level of challenge
professor I hope by the future